---
title: h1 Should Tero wear a helmet?
published: true
---

# Background information
Thread modeling can be summarized as 4 key questions:
1. What are we working on?
2. What can go wrong?
3. What are we going to do about it?
4. Did we do a good enough job?

Let's look at each of these questions in turn.

### Values

Some of the values expressed in the manifesto are:

- `Continuous refinement` over a single delivery
- `Doing threat modeling over` talking about it.
- `A culture of finding and fixing design issues` over checkbox compliance.

### What are we working on?

To answer this question, in the series of videos is suggested to collaborated sketch and make diagrams about the system we are working on, helping us to answer the first question and other to understand the system.

### What can go wrong?

This is the heart of the thread modeling process. Many tools can be used to answer this question, but it is important to mention the STRIDE mnemonic which can help define the types of threats that can occur in our system:

- Spoofing
- Tampering
- Repudiation
- Information Disclosure
- Denial of Service
- Elevation of Privilege

### What are we going to do about it?

For this question, we have a wide variety of answers, and one constant as stated in the video series. That constant would be tracking the work, As each of the previous questions in "_What can go wrong_?" need to be adressed and some something abouy it.

Adam Shostack lists the following responses:

- Mitigate: Take action to reduce the likelihood that the threat will materialize.
- Eliminate: Simply remove the feature or component that is causing the threat.
- Transfer: Shift responsibility to another entity such as the customer.
- Accept: Do not mitigate, eliminate, or transfer the risk because none of the above options are acceptable given business requirements or constraints.

### Did we do a good enough job?

The threat model must be reviewed by all stakeholders, not just the development or security teams. A fun question also to be answer is: Would you recommend threath modeling to a friend?
If the answer is yes, then the effort put into the threat model is worth it.

# Some security tips:

The task ask us to give a few tips and practices that everyone should use and know. This are my top tips that I learnt from the 3 years I've been studying cybersecurity:

1. For everyone:
    * Use a `password manager`. There are plenty of free options if you don't want to pay a cent. My personal favorite is `Proton Pass`.
    * Always be skeptical and think twice. Lawsuits are not notified by email, no one is giving money for free, and no one is asking for your credit card information.
    * Stop `self underestimating` you value. If you think that no one is going to target you, then you are wrong. The value of your data, digitial footprint... Is much more valuable than you think. Do efforts to stay private.

2. For companies:
    * Cybersecurity is an expensive process, don't cut cost on it. You are going to regret it.
    * Password rules should be as simple as possible. The more complex the rules, the more likely workers are going to use the same pattern in every mandatory change. This has been proven to be worse than not having any rules at all.
    * Don't relly only in password for authentication. 

# Real case Example Design

### Company information
Company named "Moody" who develops and host personalized moodle systems for universities and schools. They are advertised as a secure and reliable platform for educational institutions.

## What are we working on?

The bussiness model of the company is to give schools and universities a system than can handle all the learning needs. The product is thought to solve the problem of schools and universities who don't maybe have the technical and resources to build it on their own.
As part of the product, security is if offered as a key value.

#### Touchpoints

When the app is deployed, it can be acced from the web.

#### Assets

For our company, the most critical assets are the data of the users, If we offer a secure deployment of an app if this is compromised, then the company will be in a bad position.

Other valuable asset but not as critical is the avaliability of the system. If the system suffer an outage during some exam, customers would not be happy.

As a low priority asset would be the material uploaded for learning purposes. It is important to protect it, but it is not as critical as the other assets.

## What can go wrong?

Using the STRIDE mnemonic, we can give an exameple of each type of threat:

- Spoofing:
    - A student steals the cookie (_using xss or similar attacks_) from a teacher and uses it to change his grade.
- Tampering:
    - A simple SQL injection in an deprecated endpoint can delete a courses from the database.
- Repudiation:
    - Logs are not stored, so it is not possible to prove from where an online exam was taken (maybe at home).
- Information Disclosure:
    - API endpoints are exposed, so it is possible to access sensitive data.
- Denial of Service:
    - The system is not protected against DDoS attacks.
- Elevation of Privilege:
    - JWT is not correctly validated, so allows a user with some knowledge to access other users data.

An an educational platform, our priority are Confidentiality and the integrity of the data.
Availability is also a serious issue, as the system is used for exams, but it is not as likely to happen.

## What are we going to do about it?

To mitigate we are going to reduce the likelihood of the threats by for example, using 2FA for critical actions as confirm grade changes.

Some unused features can be eliminated to reduce the risk of attacks, for example, the endpoint with a vulnerability to SQL injection.

We can transfer the passwords resposability to the customer. All Universities ans schools use some kind of SSOO. Let them handle the authentication.

## Did we do a good enough job?

As a company concerned about security, we have a red team that reviews perriodically the security of the apps deployed. To be the most realist possible, this review would not be announced to the school or university nor the company. 